
The file, processed_data contains the cleaned data that will be used for further analysis. 

The raw_data files contain all individual data sets that were merged and used for the analysis.

The main outcome for this analysis is percent of eligible people (age 12+) in a county that have been fully vaccinated. It was obtained from the CDC’s open-source dataset, "COVID-19 Vaccinations in the United States, County." This dataset “represents all vaccine partners including jurisdictional partner clinics, retail pharmacies, long-term care facilities, dialysis centers, Federal Emergency Management Agency and Health Resources and Services Administration partner sites, and federal entity facilities.” The data represents vaccination percentages up to 11/10/2021. This raw file is called 'countyvaccination_new' and located in the raw_data file.

The main exposure for the analysis is percent of adults in each county who have a bachelors degree or higher. The most current county level data on education is available on the USDA’s Economic Research website. This dataset includes information on education level for all years.  We subset the data to only include observations from the most current year. The most current calculations of education level by county are 5-year averages based on 2015-2019 and they come from the Census Bureau’s American Community Survey.  This raw file is called Education-2.csv and located in the raw_data file.

There were other covariates that we examinined including poverty, unemployment, median household income, and locality (urban or rural). US County data on poverty, unemployment, and median household income were available through USDA Economic Research Service website. The county poverty estimates are model-based estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau's Small Area Income and Poverty Estimate (SAIPE) program. The county unemployment rates are from the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Local Area Unemployment Statistics (LAUS) program. The county median household income variable comes from the U.S. Census Bureau's Small Area Income and Poverty Estimate (SAIPE) program. The locality (urban or rural) variable comes from from the Rural-Urban Continuum Codes Dataset which is also managed by USDA. These raw files are called PovertyEstimates.csv and Unemployment.csv and located in the raw_data file.

Notes: Due to the vaccination data being to large for Github, I had to do in another R script before adding the vaccination data to my repository. This code is written out and marked in the Processing_Exploration.Rmd 

Three of the datasets, Education, PovertyEstimates, and Unemployment went through minor tweaks in excel before importing. There was some documentation on the first few lines before the actual data that was deleted. I also converted these from excel to csv files before importing into R. The original files can be found in the raw data folder as "Education_Original," "PovertyEstimates_Original", and "Unemployment_Original"
